docs(event_handler): add bedrock agent resolver documentation (#3602)
awslabs/aws-lambda-powertools-python: docs/core/event_handler/bedrock_agents.md

---
title: Bedrock Agents
description: Core utility
---

Event handler for Amazon Bedrock Agents, including auto generation of OpenAPI schemas.

## Key features

* Same declarative syntax as the [other Powertools event handlers](api_gateway.md)
* Drastically reduce the boilerplate to build Agents for Amazon Bedrock
* Automatic generation of OpenAPI schemas from the API
* Built-in data validation for requests/responses

## Getting started

In order to build Bedrock Agents, you need:

* Create the Lambda function that defines the business logic for the action that your agent will carry out
* Create an OpenAPI schema with the API description, structure, and parameters for the action group.

> * Ensure that Bedrock and your Lambda functions have the [necessary permissions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/agents-permissions.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Create the Lambda function that defines the business logic for the action that your agent will carry out
* Create an OpenAPI schema with the API description, structure, and parameters for the action group
* Ensure that Bedrock and your Lambda functions have the [necessary permissions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/agents-permissions.html)
```

AWS Lambda Powertools facilitates the process by providing support for the development of the Lambda function and the creation of the OpenAPI specification.

!!! info "This is not necessary if you're installing Powertools for AWS Lambda (Python) via [Lambda Layer/SAR](../../index.md#lambda-layer){target="_blank"}."

You need to add `pydantic` as a dependency in your preferred tool _e.g., requirements.txt, pyproject.toml_.

> As of now, both Pydantic V1 and V2 are supported. For a future major version, we will only support Pydantic V2.

Reviewer: The header for "install" section is missing?

I understand that you used the REST API documentation as a base, but I find it confusing to start writing about Bedrock agents, then OpenAPI docs, and then Pydantic.

Can you make this more clear pls?

### Your first Agent

To create a Bedrock Agent, use the `BedrockAgentResolver` to annotate your actions. This is
similar to the way [all the other Powertools](api_gateway.md) resolvers work.

> Be aware that it's important to include a description for each API endpoint. The description is essential because it provides Bedrock Agents with an understanding of the primary function of your API action.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must include a description for each API endpoint as it is essential in providing Bedrock Agents with an understanding of the primary function of your API action.
```

What do you think about being more incisive?

=== "Lambda handler"

    ```python hl_lines="4 9 12 21"
    --8<-- "examples/event_handler_bedrock_agents/src/getting_started.py"
    ```

	1. `description` is a required field in order for Bedrock Agents to work.

=== "Input payload"

	```json hl_lines="7 9 16"
	--8<-- "examples/event_handler_bedrock_agents/src/getting_started.json"
	```

=== "Output payload"

	```json hl_lines="12-14"
	--8<-- "examples/event_handler_bedrock_agents/src/getting_started_output.json"
	```

> The resolvers utilized by Bedrock Agents are also compatible with the full suite of Powertools utilities. This ensures seamless integration and functionality across the different tools provided by Powertools when working with Bedrock Agents.

Reviewer: :heart: :heart:

=== "Generating the OpenAPI schem"

    ```python hl_lines="24 25"
    --8<-- "examples/event_handler_bedrock_agents/src/generating_openapi_schema.py"
    ```

=== "OpenAPI schema"

    ```json hl_lines="13 16 24"
    --8<-- "examples/event_handler_bedrock_agents/src/generating_openapi_schema.json"
    ```

To obtain the OpenAPI schema, execute the Python script from the command line interface (CLI). Upon execution, the script will generate the schema, which will be output directly to the console.

### Creating your Agent in the AWS Console

To create a Bedrock Agent, you should refer to the [official documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/agents-create.html) provided by AWS.

During the creation process, when the user interface (UI) prompts you for an OpenAPI specification, you should input the specification that was generated in the previous step. This is the spec that you obtained by running your Python script, which produced the OpenAPI schema as output.

### Enabling the Swagger UI

> --8<-- "docs/core/event_handler/_swagger_ui.md"

Reviewer: This line includes:
>Behind the scenes, the [data validation](http://127.0.0.1:8000/core/event_handler/api_gateway/#data-validation) feature auto-generates an OpenAPI specification from your routes and type annotations. You can use [Swagger UI](https://swagger.io/tools/swagger-ui/) to visualize and interact with your newly auto-documented API.

I think it's hard to understand what the documentation is trying to say here. Customers move from "Creating your Agent in the AWS Console" to Swagger data validation. We need to rethink this part of the documentation.

---
title: Agents for Amazon Bedrock
description: Core utility
---

> Author [Agents for Amazon Bedrock](https://aws.amazon.com/bedrock/agents/){target="_blank"} using event handlers and auto generation of OpenAPI schemas.

Reviewer 2: I'd add or replace the product page link with the documentation about how Agents work: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/agents.html#agents-how

At this time, we support both Pydantic V1 and V2. For a future major version, we will only support Pydantic V2.

### Required resources

Before you start, you need to the following permissions:

* A **service role**, which allows Amazon Bedrock to invoke foundation models
* **Lambda permissions** allowing Amazon Bedrock to invoke it

=== "Service Role Example using AWS CloudFormation"
  	```yaml hl_lines="14-17 24-29 34"
  	--8<-- "examples/event_handler_bedrock_agents/sam/bedrock_service_role.yaml"
  	```

	1. You need the role ARN when creating the Agent for Amazon Bedrock

=== "Lambda permissions using AWS Serverless Application Model (SAM)"
	```yaml hl_lines="27-33"
	--8<-- "examples/event_handler_bedrock_agents/sam/template.yaml"
	```

	1. Amazon Bedrock needs permissions to invoke this Lambda function

### Your first Agent

To create an Agent for Amazon Bedrock, use the `BedrockAgentResolver` to annotate your actions.
This is similar to the way [all the other Event Handler](api_gateway.md) resolvers work.

=== "Lambda handler"

    ```python hl_lines="4 9 12 21"
    --8<-- "examples/event_handler_bedrock_agents/src/getting_started.py"
    ```

> 	1. `description` is a recommended field that should contain a human readable description of your action

Reviewer 2: Add a note that the Agent needs this field to understand the behaviour of your function and match it with an action.

---
title: Agents for Amazon Bedrock
description: Core utility
---

Author [Agents for Amazon Bedrock](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/agents.html#agents-how){target="_blank"} using event handlers and auto generation of OpenAPI schemas.

<center>

> ```mermaid
> --8<-- "docs/core/event_handler/bedrock_agents.mermaid"
> ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

duplicate

</center>

> ![Agents for Bedrock Overview](../../media/bedrock_agents_intro.svg)

Reviewer 3: improve contrast `User input`. You'll also need an image on dark theme.

contrast tool: https://coolors.co/contrast-checker/112a46-acc8e5

Author: After internal discussion we decided that we'll revert back to the mermaid diagram, due to accessibility, ease of maintenance and coherence with the rest of the docs.

## Key features

> * Same declarative syntax as the [other event handler resolvers](api_gateway.md)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Similar experience when authoring [REST](api_gateway.md){target="_blank"} and [GraphQL APIs](appsync.md){target="_blank"}
```

use `target` to open up in a new tab like we do in other docs.

> * Drastic reduction of the boilerplate to build Agents for Amazon Bedrock

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Minimal boilerplate to build Agents for Amazon Bedrock
```

* Automatic generation of [OpenAPI schemas](https://www.openapis.org/){target="_blank"} from your business logic code
* Built-in data validation for requests and responses

## Terminology

**Data validation** automatically validates the user input and the response of your Lambda function against a set of constraints defined by you

**Event handler** is a Powertools for AWS feature that processes an event, runs data parsing and validation, routes the request to a specific function, and returns a response to the caller in the proper format

**[OpenAPI schema](https://www.openapis.org/){target="_blank"}** is an industry standard JSON-serialized string that represents the structure and parameters of your API

> **Action group** is a collection of two resources where you define the actions that the agent should carry out: an OpenAPI schema to define the APIs that the agent can invoke to carry out its tasks, and a Lambda function to execute those actions

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Data validation** automatically validates the user input and the response of your AWS Lambda function against a set of constraints defined by you.

**Event handler** is a Powertools for AWS feature that processes an event, runs data parsing and validation, routes the request to a specific function, and returns a response to the caller in the proper format.

**[OpenAPI schema](https://www.openapis.org/){target="_blank"}** is an industry standard JSON-serialized string that represents the structure and parameters of your API.

**Action group** is a collection of two resources where you define the actions that the agent should carry out: an OpenAPI schema to define the APIs that the agent can invoke to carry out its tasks, and a Lambda function to execute those actions.
```

full stop `.`. Added `AWS Lambda` as it first appears, then we can use short-hand `Lambda`.

**Large Language Models (LLM)** are very large deep learning models that are pre-trained on vast amounts of data, capable of extracting meanings from a sequence of text and understanding the relationship between words and phrases on it.

**Agent for Amazon Bedrock** is an AWS service to build and deploy conversational agents that can interact with your customers using Large Language Models (LLM) and AWS Lambda functions.

## Getting started

???+ tip

> 	All examples shared in this documentation are available within the [project repository](https://github.com/aws-powertools/powertools-lambda-python/tree/develop/examples){target="_blank"}.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
???+ tip "All examples shared in this documentation are available within the [project repository](https://github.com/aws-powertools/powertools-lambda-python/tree/develop/examples)"
```

To build Agents for Amazon Bedrock, you need:

* [Create the Lambda function](#your-first-agent) that defines the business logic for the action that your agent carries out.
* [Create an OpenAPI schema](#generating-openapi-schemas) with the API description, structure, and parameters for the action group.

> * Ensure that Amazon Bedrock and your Lambda functions have the [necessary permissions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/agents-permissions.html).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Author: Did you miss any comment here? Not sure why this section was being removed. I've added links to the corresponding sections like the feedback provided. It's important to understand the necessary steps and order to create an agent.

Author: Got it, it was moved bellow, thanks

> Powertools for AWS Lambda makes it easier to author the Lambda function and the creation of the OpenAPI schema.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

removing as requested in the previous feedback session

Author: Thanks, my recollection was that there was no consensus on this. But I'll remove the sentence.

### Install

!!! info "This is unnecessary if you're installing Powertools for AWS Lambda (Python) via [Lambda Layer/SAR](../../index.md#lambda-layer){target="_blank"}."

You need to add `pydantic` as a dependency in your preferred tool _e.g., requirements.txt, pyproject.toml_.

> At this time, we support both Pydantic V1 and V2. For a future major version, we will only support Pydantic V2.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You need to add `pydantic` as a dependency in your preferred tool _e.g., requirements.txt, pyproject.toml_. At this time, we support both Pydantic V1 and V2. For a future major version, we will only support Pydantic V2.
```

### Required resources

> Before you start, you need to the following permissions:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To build Agents for Amazon Bedrock, you will need:

* [Create the Lambda function](#your-first-agent) that defines the business logic for the action that your agent carries out.
* [Create an OpenAPI schema](#generating-openapi-schemas) with the API description, structure, and parameters for the action group.
* Ensure that Amazon Bedrock and your Lambda functions have the [necessary permissions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/agents-permissions.html).

Before you start, you need to the following permissions:
```

Moved here. Please adjust to make it cohesive later. As shared in the previous feedback session, we need:

1. Explain what resources we will create using IaC
2. Explain what resources are manual
3. Anything else

Maybe a table can make this easier to digest. Try a few things and see which gets the message across the cleanest.

Author: Done, transformed the whole content into a table and made the examples simpler with SAM and CDK

* A **service role**, which allows Amazon Bedrock to invoke foundation models
* **Lambda permissions** allowing Amazon Bedrock to invoke it

=== "Service Role Example using AWS CloudFormation"
	You'll need this role when [creating an Agent in the AWS Console](#walkthrough-for-creating-the-agent).

  	```yaml hl_lines="14-17 24-29 34"
  	--8<-- "examples/event_handler_bedrock_agents/sam/bedrock_service_role.yaml"
  	```

	1. Check the [supported foundational models](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/agents-supported.html){target="_blank"}
	2. You need the role ARN when creating the Agent for Amazon Bedrock

=== "Lambda permissions using AWS Serverless Application Model (SAM)"
	```yaml hl_lines="27-33"
	--8<-- "examples/event_handler_bedrock_agents/sam/template.yaml"
	```

	1. Amazon Bedrock needs permissions to invoke this Lambda function

=== "Using AWS Cloud Developer Kit (CDK)"

> 	Use the [Generative AI CDK constructs](https://awslabs.github.io/generative-ai-cdk-constructs/src/cdk-lib/bedrock/#agents){target="_blank"} to create your Agent with [AWS CDK](https://aws.amazon.com/cdk/){target="_blank"}.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
	This example usees the [Generative AI CDK constructs](https://awslabs.github.io/generative-ai-cdk-constructs/src/cdk-lib/bedrock/#agents){target="_blank"} to create your Agent with [AWS CDK](https://aws.amazon.com/cdk/){target="_blank"}.
```

> 	These constructs abstract all the underlying permission setup and bundling of your Lambda function.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
	These constructs abstract the underlying permission setup and code bundling of your Lambda function.
```

	```python
    --8<-- "examples/event_handler_bedrock_agents/cdk/bedrock_agent_stack.py"
	```

	1. The path to your Lambda function handler
	2. The path to the OpenAPI schema describing your API

### Your first Agent

To create an Agent for Amazon Bedrock, use the `BedrockAgentResolver` to annotate your actions.
This is similar to the way [all the other Event Handler](api_gateway.md) resolvers work.

=== "Lambda handler"

> 	The resolvers used by Agents for Amazon Bedrock are compatible with the full suite of Powertools for AWS Lambda utilities.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
	The resolvers used by Agents for Amazon Bedrock are compatible with all Powertools for AWS Lambda [features](../../index.md#features){target="blank"}.
```

> 	This includes [Logger](../logger.md), [Metrics](../metrics.md) and [Tracer](../tracer.md).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
	For reference, we use [Logger](../logger.md) and [Tracer](../tracer.md) in this example.
```

    ```python hl_lines="4 9 12 21"
    --8<-- "examples/event_handler_bedrock_agents/src/getting_started.py"
    ```

	1. `description` is a **required** field that should contain a human readable description of your action
	2. We take care of **parsing**, **validating**, **routing** and **responding** to the request.

=== "OpenAPI schema"

	Powertools for AWS Lambda [generates this automatically](#generating-openapi-schemas) from the Lambda handler.

	```json
	--8<-- "examples/event_handler_bedrock_agents/src/getting_started_schema.json"
	```

=== "Input payload"

	```json hl_lines="4 6 13"
	--8<-- "examples/event_handler_bedrock_agents/src/getting_started.json"
	```

=== "Output payload"

	```json hl_lines="10"
	--8<-- "examples/event_handler_bedrock_agents/src/getting_started_output.json"
	```

> !!! note "It's required to include a `description` for each API endpoint and input parameter. This will improve the understanding Amazon Bedrock has of your actions."

Reviewer 3: move this up as text, not admonition.

### Validating input and output

> You can define the expected format for incoming data and responses by using type annotations.

Reviewer 3: Add more info here, as the code is quite terse coming from the first example. As suggested in the last feedback session, this might be the first time someone sees Pydantic models and all annotations here.

Give context.

Author: I acted on the session feedback by adding extensive code annotations, but I understand that we might need more. I've changed it now to more explicit about what's going on here.

=== "Lambda handler"

	```python hl_lines="5 23-26 32-33"
	--8<-- "examples/event_handler_bedrock_agents/src/getting_started_with_validation.py"
	```

	1. No need to add the `enable_validation` parameter, as it's enabled by default.
	2. You can define constraints using standard Python types, [dataclasses](https://docs.python.org/3/library/dataclasses.html) or [Pydantic models](https://docs.pydantic.dev/latest/concepts/models/)
	3. Describe each input and output using human-readable descriptions
	4. Add the typing annotations to your parameters and return types, and let the event handler take care of the rest

=== "OpenAPI schema"

	```json
	--8<-- "examples/event_handler_bedrock_agents/src/getting_started_with_validation_schema.json"
	```

=== "Input payload"

	```json hl_lines="6-13 20"
	--8<-- "examples/event_handler_bedrock_agents/src/getting_started_with_validation.json"
	```

=== "Output payload"

	```json hl_lines="10"
	--8<-- "examples/event_handler_bedrock_agents/src/getting_started_with_validation_output.json"
	```

> If the request validation, your event handler will not be called, and an error message is returned to Bedrock.

Reviewer 3: As suggested earlier, please create an exception handling section with an example output etc. We also discussed having sequence diagrams to demystify this area.

Author: I remember there was no concensus on that decision since we don't control what Bedrock does with the output of our APIs. I can add an example payload when the validation fails, but unsure how that helps.

Similarly, if the response fails validation, your handler will abort the response.

### Generating OpenAPI schemas

> Use the `get_openapi_json_schema` function provided by the resolver.

Reviewer 3: I don't fully recall anymore, but if the customer will need to update Bedrock with an OpenAPI Schema on changes, please state here.

This function will produce a JSON-serialized string that represents your OpenAPI schema.
You can print this string or save it to a file. You'll use the file later when creating the Agent.

> === "Generating the OpenAPI schema"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
=== "app.py"
```

Renaming it so it aligns with the next step `python3 app.py`, otherwise it will result in error.

    ```python hl_lines="24 25"
    --8<-- "examples/event_handler_bedrock_agents/src/generating_openapi_schema.py"
    ```

	1. This ensures that it's only executed when running the file directly, and not when running on the Lambda runtime.
    2. You can use [additional options](#customizing-openapi-metadata) to customize the OpenAPI schema.

=== "OpenAPI schema"

    ```json hl_lines="13 16 24"
    --8<-- "examples/event_handler_bedrock_agents/src/generating_openapi_schema.json"
    ```

To get the OpenAPI schema, run the Python script from your terminal.
The script will generate the schema directly to standard output, which you can redirect to a file.

```sh

> python app.py > schema.json

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
python3 app.py > schema.json
```

as suggested earlier.

```

### Crafting effective OpenAPI schemas

Working with Agents for Amazon Bedrock will introduce [non-deterministic behaviour to your system](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/agents-how.html#agents-rt){target="_blank"}.
The OpenAPI schema provides context and semantics to the Agent that will support the decision process for invoking our Lambda function. Sparse or ambiguous schema can result in unexpected outcomes.

> We recommend enriching your OpenAPI schema with as many details as possible, which will help the Agent understand your functions and make correct invocations. To achieve that:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We recommend enriching your OpenAPI schema with as many details as possible to help the Agent understand your functions, and make correct invocations. To achieve that, keep the following suggestions in mind:
```

> * always describe your function behaviour using the `description` field in your annotations
> * in case of refactoring, update your description field to match the function outcomes
> * use distinct `description` for each function to have clear separation of semantics

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Always describe your function behaviour using the `description` field in your annotations
* When refactoring, update your description field to match the function outcomes
* Use distinct `description` for each function to have clear separation of semantics
```

Capital case for bullet points.

> ### Walkthrough for creating the agent

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Video walkthrough
```

To create an Agent for Amazon Bedrock, refer to the [official documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/agents-create.html) provided by AWS.

The following video demonstrates the end-to-end process:

<center>
<iframe width="720" height="405" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/NWoC5FTSt7s?si=AG2qpLJbxCkyiLma&amp;controls=1" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</center>

During the creation process, you should use the schema generated in the previous step when prompted for an OpenAPI specification.

## Advanced

### Accessing custom request fields

> The event sent by Agents for Amazon Bedrock into your Lambda function contains a number of event fields that might be interesting. The event handler exposes them in the `app.current_event` field:

Reviewer 3: > might be interesting

Provide an use case.

Author: As I wrote above, there's no known use case that I can currently find on public docs. 

> ~[ ] Accessing custom request fields --> make it more meaningful~ -- Couldn't find any relevant documentation or meaningful examples at the moment, so we might add this later

Should we remove this section instead?

---
title: Agents for Amazon Bedrock
description: Core utility
---

> Author [Agents for Amazon Bedrock](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/agents.html#agents-how){target="_blank"} using event handlers and auto generation of OpenAPI schemas.

Reviewer 4: I think I'd rather use "Create" instead of "Author" here.

<center>
```mermaid

> --8<-- "docs/core/event_handler/bedrock_agents.mermaid"

Reviewer 4: The diagram is good, but needs to be moved to somewhere with context.

Author: This follows the same patterns we use with other modern documentation pages, like [Data Masking](https://docs.powertools.aws.dev/lambda/python/latest/utilities/data_masking/)

Reviewer 4: I was meant to delete this comment

```
</center>

## Key features

> * Similar experience when authoring [REST](api_gateway.md){target="_blank"} and [GraphQL APIs](appsync.md){target="_blank"}

Reviewer 4: I think we should remove this line or explain how it's similar, lets not expect prior knowledge of PT features

Author: You have a good point, specially this being the first key feature. So I'm moved it to the last bullet point.

* Automatic generation of [OpenAPI schemas](https://www.openapis.org/){target="_blank"} from your business logic code
* Built-in data validation for requests and responses

> * Similar experience when authoring [REST](api_gateway.md){target="_blank"} and [GraphQL APIs](appsync.md){target="_blank"}

Reviewer: I'm not sure if I agree with that. We don't have DataValidation, Middleware and other things when build GraphQL APIs, the only similar thing is routing. Maybe REST and HTTP APIs?

Author: Changed to "REST and HTTP APIs"

## Terminology

**Data validation** automatically validates the user input and the response of your AWS Lambda function against a set of constraints defined by you.

> **Event handler** is a Powertools for AWS feature that processes an event, runs data parsing and validation, routes the request to a specific function, and returns a response to the caller in the proper format.

Reviewer 4: I think this should be a bullet list, it'll make it easier to parse for ESL folk

Author: This follows the same style used in other recent documentation, for instance [Data Masking](https://docs.powertools.aws.dev/lambda/python/latest/utilities/data_masking/)

**[OpenAPI schema](https://www.openapis.org/){target="_blank"}** is an industry standard JSON-serialized string that represents the structure and parameters of your API.

**Action group** is a collection of two resources where you define the actions that the agent should carry out: an OpenAPI schema to define the APIs that the agent can invoke to carry out its tasks, and a Lambda function to execute those actions.

**Large Language Models (LLM)** are very large deep learning models that are pre-trained on vast amounts of data, capable of extracting meanings from a sequence of text and understanding the relationship between words and phrases on it.

> **Agent for Amazon Bedrock** is an AWS service to build and deploy conversational agents that can interact with your customers using Large Language Models (LLM) and AWS Lambda functions.

Reviewer 4: this is semantically incorrect, AAB is a feature of bedrock rather than a service.

## Getting started

> ???+ tip "All examples shared in this documentation are available within the [project repository](https://github.com/aws-powertools/powertools-lambda-python/tree/develop/examples)"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
!!! tip "All examples shared in this documentation are available within the [project repository](https://github.com/aws-powertools/powertools-lambda-python/tree/develop/examples)"
```

??? is for collapsable admonitions, we don't need them here.

### Install

!!! info "This is unnecessary if you're installing Powertools for AWS Lambda (Python) via [Lambda Layer/SAR](../../index.md#lambda-layer){target="_blank"}."

> You need to add `pydantic` as a dependency in your preferred tool _e.g., requirements.txt, pyproject.toml_. At this time, we support both Pydantic V1 and V2. For a future major version, we will only support Pydantic V2.

Reviewer: Hey @rubenfonseca, please correct if I'm wrong, but Agents for Bedrock doesn't support OpenAPI 3.1+ and Pydantic v2 is only compatible with Pydatinc v2, right? Because of that we fixed this problems in this PR: https://github.com/aws-powertools/powertools-lambda-python/pull/3860

Author: Nice catch, changed the sentence. Let me know if it's ok

### Required resources

To build Agents for Amazon Bedrock, you will need:

| Requirement                                                                                                           | Description                                                                    | SAM Supported | CDK Supported |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:-------------:|:-------------:|
| [Lambda Function](#your-first-agent)                                                                                  | Defines your business logic for the action group                               |       ✅       |       ✅       |

> | [OpenAPI Schema](#generating-openapi-schemas)                                                                         | API description, structure, and action group parameters                        |       ❌       |       ✅       |

Reviewer 4: I thought openapi schemas are compatible with SAM if you use `AWS::Serverless::Api.DefinitionBody` or AWS::Serverless::HttpApi.DefinitionBody` (depending on OpenAPI version) to specify it

Author: This is not about defining the OpenAPI schema of an API Gateway, the OpenAPI Schema is a configuration parameter of the Agent for Amazon Bedrock.

> | Bedrock [Service Role](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/agents-permissions.html){target="_blank"} | Allows Amazon Bedrock to invoke foundation models                              |       ✅       |       ✅       |

Reviewer 2: Any specific reason why `Bedrock` is not part of the link? The rendering is a bit odd, as if it is by accident.

Author: Great point, fixed

> | Agent for Bedrock                                                                                                     | The service that will combine all the above to create the conversational agent |       ❌       |       ✅       |

Reviewer 4: Typo: Agent**_s_**

	```yaml hl_lines="18 26 34 61"
	--8<-- "examples/event_handler_bedrock_agents/sam/template.yaml"
	```

	1. Amazon Bedrock needs permissions to invoke this Lambda function
	2. Check the [supported foundational models](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/agents-supported.html){target="_blank"}
	3. You need the role ARN when creating the Agent for Amazon Bedrock

=== "Using AWS Cloud Developer Kit (CDK)"
	This example uses the [Generative AI CDK constructs](https://awslabs.github.io/generative-ai-cdk-constructs/src/cdk-lib/bedrock/#agents){target="_blank"} to create your Agent with [AWS CDK](https://aws.amazon.com/cdk/){target="_blank"}.
	These constructs abstract the underlying permission setup and code bundling of your Lambda function.

	```python
    --8<-- "examples/event_handler_bedrock_agents/cdk/bedrock_agent_stack.py"
	```

	1. The path to your Lambda function handler
	2. The path to the OpenAPI schema describing your API

### Your first Agent

> To create an Agent for Amazon Bedrock, use the `BedrockAgentResolver` to annotate your actions.

Reviewer 4: I think this could be just "to create an agent, use ..."

Author: Agree!

This is similar to the way [all the other Event Handler](api_gateway.md) resolvers work.

> It's required to include a `description` for each API endpoint and input parameter. This will improve the understanding Amazon Bedrock has of your actions.

Reviewer 4: The tone changes mid-way through the sentence "it" & "you"

> You are required to add a `description` parameter in each endpoint, doing so will improve the Bedrock's understanding of your actions.

Also, it's not clear what an input parameter is in this context as the example doesn't show one beyond the URL

Author: Thanks! Changed the sentence. The example already highlights what an input parameter is.

<img width="1119" alt="image" src="https://github.com/aws-powertools/powertools-lambda-python/assets/10713/487df872-ea61-4d9f-8c2d-ef6ad7fb8dba">

	```

=== "Output payload"

	```json hl_lines="10"
	--8<-- "examples/event_handler_bedrock_agents/src/getting_started_with_validation_output.json"
	```

#### When validation fails

If the request validation fails, your event handler will not be called, and an error message is returned to Bedrock.
Similarly, if the response fails validation, your handler will abort the response.

???+ info "What does this mean for my Agent?"
	The event handler will always return a response according to the OpenAPI schema.
	A validation failure always results in a [422 response](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/422).
	However, how Amazon Bedrock interprets that failure is non-deterministic, since it depends on the characteristics of the LLM being used.

=== "Input payload"

	```json hl_lines="11"
	--8<-- "examples/event_handler_bedrock_agents/src/validation_failure_input.json"
	```

=== "Output payload"

	```json hl_lines="10"
	--8<-- "examples/event_handler_bedrock_agents/src/validation_failure_output.json"
	```

<center>
```mermaid
--8<-- "docs/core/event_handler/bedrock_agents_validation_sequence_diagram.mermaid"
```
</center>

### Generating OpenAPI schemas

> Use the `get_openapi_json_schema` function provided by the resolver.

Reviewer 4: The first part of the line doesn't have explanation of what you're using this function call for, i.e.:
> Use the `get_openapi_json_schema` function provided by the resolver to **blow up the death star**

Sparse or ambiguous schemas can result in unexpected outcomes.

We recommend enriching your OpenAPI schema with as many details as possible to help the Agent understand your functions, and make correct invocations.
To achieve that, keep the following suggestions in mind:

* Always describe your function behaviour using the `description` field in your annotations
* When refactoring, update your description field to match the function outcomes
* Use distinct `description` for each function to have clear separation of semantics

### Video walkthrough

To create an Agent for Amazon Bedrock, refer to the [official documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/agents-create.html) provided by AWS.

The following video demonstrates the end-to-end process:

<center>
<iframe width="720" height="405" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/NWoC5FTSt7s?si=AG2qpLJbxCkyiLma&amp;controls=1" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</center>

> During the creation process, you should use the schema generated in the previous step when prompted for an OpenAPI specification.

Reviewer 4: Instead of stating "previous step", create a link that goes to the relevant docs section

## Advanced

### Accessing custom request fields

> The event sent by Agents for Amazon Bedrock into your Lambda function contains a number of extra event fields, exposed in the `app.current_event` field.

Reviewer 4: There should be a link maybe to jump to the table below
